# ASP.NET Web Application Testing

This document describes one set of practices that I use to test ASP.NET web applications. 

Our sample application is a simple help desp ticketing system where users submit tickets about issues they are having. Help Desk agents work on tickets and provide feedback to the users in the form of comments and status updates.

Here is the tech stack of the applications:

- Front End 
  - HTML views generated by ASP.NET MVC
  - jQuery + Plugins for UI interactions and client side validation
  - jQuery Ajax for backend communication
- Backend
  - ASP.MVC Generates HTML
  - ASP.NET Web API for backend
  - Entity Framework talks to SQL Server

## Testing Considerations
The application needs to be tested using a combination of 
  - Unit Tests
  - Integration Tests (Component Tests)
  - End to End (Functional / Acceptance) Tests

### Unit Tests
These tests will verify that individual classes or small combination of classes operate correctly to fulfil a specific unit of functionality. 
The unit tests should run completely in memory of a single process. They will have no interaction with outside systems, network, or file system.

### Integration Tests
Integration or Component tests will mostly test the interaction between the application and external systems. For example, we will use integration tests to verify that tickets can be properly saved into and retrieved from the database.

### End to End Tests
E2E tests will verify the functionality of the complete system. In our case we will have two types of E2E tests.
- API Tests (sub-cutaneous tests), which verify that the Web API end points function correctly
- A small set of UI Tests will verify that the application works correcty using the browser. For example, we will verify that when a user opens the ticket input form, fill out all the required fields and successfully submit a ticket, they get a confirmation message indicating that we received the ticket.

### Things not covered by our tests
- **Email notifications**: Users will receive email notifications when tickets are submitted. However we will not have any E2E or Integration tests for this functionality
  
